to answer this question we need only
extrapolate from what we just did we
know for example that going from
capacity 102 101 required us to create
and fill 101 memory boxes that was this
picture here to go from 101 to 102 is
102 memory boxes and so forth and so
ultimately everything boils down to what
is the sum of 100 or psych 101 plus 102
plus dot dot plus a thousand so this is
a math problem you might not right now
feel comfortable how to know how to
solve or might not feel comfortable
knowing that is all and so one approach
is to go to Wolfram Alpha which is a
handy tool we can just say equals this
and we'll add them all up and we'll say
around 500,000 which gives us our answer
now we don't want to be totally
dependent on Wolfram Alpha so in this
class later we're gonna use a number of
different tricks and so here the trick
that is best the way that you can
actually do it without consulting some
external tool would be to keep in mind
that the sum of 1 + 2 + 3 + n is equal
to n times n plus 1 over 2 this is
something you surely learned at some
point you might have forgotten it
there's a whole link here if you want to
read about why that's true and so we can
say that the sum of the numbers 101 due
to 1,000 is gonna be not that much
bigger than this sum because those first
hundred numbers aren't very large so
this last little bit we can approximate
it by just doing a thousand times a
thousand plus one divided by two which
is around 500,000 so that's one way to
do okay so let's compare side by side
this is what our s list was capable of
whenever you insert into an S list what
we show on the y-axis this is the total
time to complete all of those inserts so
in other words inserting 200,000 items
in this theoretical plot took only point
zero zero zero zero two seconds
inserting 40,000 west point zero zero
zero four and this is a purely
theoretical number this is not an actual
experience however if we ran an
experiment we would really expect to get
a straight line so this straight line
indicates that the operations for the S
list are all constant time because the
integral of a constant is aligned by
contrast if we look at the a list which
is
much slower and the focus of our
attention right now thus we get a bigger
font what we see is it's actually a
parabola so that inserting 20,000 items
is not nearly as slow as a hundred
thousand items and in fact inserting a
hundred thousand items if we do the
exact same Wolfram Alpha type trick
we'll see it's around five billion new
containers new memory boxes that's a lot
and since computers operate they do at
the speed of around gigahertz that is
they do about a billion things per
second it's no big surprise that
inserting a hundred thousand items took
seconds so if you think five billion
divided by a billion to around five
seconds my computer did a little better
it's a little faster than the gigahertz
just a rough rule of thumb and so this
parabola actually tells us that as our
list gets bigger it takes longer and
longer for the operations to complete in
other words the time per operation is
linear and the integral of a line is of
course a parabola and this right here is
unacceptable